For my capstone project I decided to expand my chess app by implementing a backend. To complete the entire project I used the following: Node, Express, Mongoose/Mongo, React, Redux, CSS, and Bootstrap.

To set up database, I created schema files in my models directory. I did this with both users and dailythoughts. This allowed me to organize what I needed in my database, and have a visual representation of the data stored. After connecting mongoose in the server file, I began to implement express in my routes/api directory. Express was needed in order to connect get/post routes to the database information. This was done for user creation, dailythoughts, and the authorization of users. Once I created my routes I then implemented them in my server file using 
'app.use'. After completing the backend, I began to implement react and redux. Redux was very useful as it allowed me to manage the state of what was happening in my app. This was needed for such things as creating/deleting users, login attempts, registering attempts, rendering errors, etc. All which are displayed in my actions directory. After creating the types, I began working on my actions in order to send information from the store. In my actions I used axios in order to achieve receiving HTTP requests. Once I completed my actions, I continued on by creating reducers. My reducers allowed me to determine changes in the applications state. Each case in my reducers is set to execute whatever next state needed to be executed. Once done with redux, I began creating the components for things such as loginning in and registering. Both login and register come from modals, which is a pop up screen imported from reactstrap. In these modal components I handled all submits, changes, toggles, etc. At this point all I had left was implementing the chess game board which I already had the code for, so I just imported it into the new app. Once this was complete, I rendered all my components into App.js and the app was complete. 

This project probably shouldn't have been done with only one person, but nonetheless I am happy with what I could complete within a small time frame. It really taught me how everything would be connected on a full-stack application, and it raised my confidence as a programmer. I look forward to doing a few more projects similar to this one, and I'm excited to see the improvements in my programming. 